Release checklist (#89)
cloudflare/kv-asset-handler: RELEASE_CHECKLIST.md

# Release Checklist

This is a list of the things that need to happen during a release.

## Build a Release

> ### Prepare the Changelog (Full release only)

Reviewer: idk if we do release candidates for packages; i kinda think no? so we can remove copy distinguishing between RCs and full releases i think

1. Open the associated milestone. All issues and PRs should be closed. If
   they are not you should reassign all open issues and PRs to future
   milestones.
1. Go through the commit history since the last release. Ensure that all PRs
   that have landed are marked with the milestone. You can use this to
   show all the PRs that are merged on or after YYY-MM-DD:
   `https://github.com/issues?q=repo%3Acloudflare%2Fkv-asset-handler+merged%3A%3E%3DYYYY-MM-DD`

> 1. Go through the closed PRs in the milestone. Each should have a changelog

Reviewer: do we have these labels in this repo?

   there is a missing label, please add one.
1. Choose an emoji for the release. Try to make it semi-related to something that's been included in the release (point releases can be a little weirder).
1. Add this release to the `CHANGELOG.md`. Use the structure of previous
   entries. If you use VS Code, you can use [this snippet](https://gist.github.com/EverlastingBugstopper/04d1adb99506388ff9d7abd8d0a82bc3) to insert new changelog sections. If it is a release candidate, no official changelog is needed, but testing instructions will be added later in the process.

### Start a release PR

1. Create a new branch "#.#.#" where "#.#.#" is this release's version (release) or "#.#.#-rc.#" (release candidate)
1. Push up a commit with the `CHANGELOG.md` changes. The commit message can just be "#.#.#" (release) or "#.#.#-rc.#" (release candidate)
1. Request review from the @cloudflare/workers-devexp team.

### Review

Most of your comments will be about the changelog. Once the PR is finalized and approved...

1. If you made changes, squash or fixup all changes into a single commit.
1. Run `git push` and wait for CI to pass.

### Tag and build release

> This part of the release process is handled by GitHub Actions, and our binaries are distributed as GitHub Releases. When you push a version tag, it kicks off an action that creates a new GitHub release for that tag, builds release binaries and attaches them to the release.

Reviewer: is this true for this repo? we don't build binaries, we just publish the package i think, so maybe we should remove copy that references binaries.

1. Wait for CI to pass.

### Edit the release

After CI builds the release binaries and they appear on the [releases page](https://github.com/cloudflare/kv-asset-handler/releases), click `Edit` and update release notes.

### Publish to npm

Full releases are tagged `latest`. Release candidates are tagged `beta`. If for some reason you mix up the commands below, follow the troubleshooting guide.

1. If this is a full release, `cd npm && npm publish`. If it is a release candidate, `cd npm && npm publish --tag beta`
1. Tweet.

# Troubleshooting a release

Mistakes happen. Most of these release steps are recoverable if you mess up. The goal is not to, but if you find yourself cursing a fat fingered command, here are some troubleshooting tips. Please feel free to add to this guide.

## I pushed the wrong tag

Tags and releases can be removed in GitHub. First, [remove the remote tag](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5480258/how-to-delete-a-remote-tag):

```console
$ git push --delete origin tagname
```

This will turn the release into a `draft` and you can delete it from the edit page.

Make sure you also delete the local tag:

```console
$ git tag --delete vX.X.X
```

> ## I forgot to add the `beta` tag to my RC when I ran `npm publish`

Reviewer: this is specific to RCs so can probably be dropped. a section around un-publishing and/or deprecating may be useful here, maybe even in both repos.

# Release Checklist

This is a list of the things that need to happen during a release.

## Build a Release

### Prepare the Changelog

1. Open the associated milestone. All issues and PRs should be closed. If
   they are not you should reassign all open issues and PRs to future
   milestones.
1. Go through the commit history since the last release. Ensure that all PRs
   that have landed are marked with the milestone. You can use this to
   show all the PRs that are merged on or after YYY-MM-DD:
   `https://github.com/issues?q=repo%3Acloudflare%2Fkv-asset-handler+merged%3A%3E%3DYYYY-MM-DD`
1. Go through the closed PRs in the milestone.
1. Add this release to the `CHANGELOG.md`. Use the structure of previous

>    entries. If you use VS Code, you can use [this snippet](https://gist.github.com/EverlastingBugstopper/04d1adb99506388ff9d7abd8d0a82bc3) to insert new changelog sections. If it is a release candidate, no official changelog is needed, but testing instructions will be added later in the process.

Reviewer 2: this snippet isn't quite right for this repo because it contains links to wrangler and not kv-asset-handler, you should be able to fork the gist and change those links and should be good

>    entries. If you use VS Code, you can use [this snippet](https://gist.github.com/EverlastingBugstopper/04d1adb99506388ff9d7abd8d0a82bc3) to insert new changelog sections. If it is a release candidate, no official changelog is needed, but testing instructions will be added later in the process.

Author: ```suggestion
   entries. If you use VS Code, you can use [this snippet](https://gist.github.com/victoriabernard92/296c39721a3f4b171cb55c9ab9a65ec2) to insert new changelog sections. If it is a release candidate, no official changelog is needed, but testing instructions will be added later in the process.
```
